add 6.1.3 release notes (#11445)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.1.3.md

    - Fix an issue that `get_lock()` cannot hold for more than 10 minutes. [#38706](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38706) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that the auto increment column cannot be used with check constraint. [#38894](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38894) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix broken log rotation of grpc [#38941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38941) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - Delete TiFlash sync status from etcd when table is truncated or dropped [#37168](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37168) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - Fix the issue of arbitrary file read via data source name injection (CVE-2022-3023). [#38541](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38541) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    <!--executor owner: zanmato1984-->

    - Fix the issue that Projection may push expression down through Join wrongly [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that the background statistics collecting task may panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the background statistics collecting task may panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)
    - Fix the issue that function `str_to_date` returns wrong result on SQL mode `NO_ZERO_DATE` [#39146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39146) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

    - Fix the issue that column files in delta layer cannot be compacted after restart tiflash [#6159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6159) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

    <!--owner: @3pointer-->

    + Dumpling

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiCDC

    <!--owner: @nongfushanquan-->

        - Fix an issue that causes data lost when pause and resume changefeed while executing DDL. [#7682](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7682) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Binlog

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

        - Fix the issue that when `collation_compatible` is set to `"strict"`, DM might generate SQL with duplicated collations [#6832](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6832) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix sometime DM task is stopped with error "Unknown placement policy" [#7493](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7493) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>         - Fix in some cases log contains many "COMMIT" related lines and relay log file may re-pull from upstream [#7719](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7719) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix in some cases relay log file may re-pull from upstream [#7719](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7719) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.3 Release Notes

Release date: xx, xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.1.3

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.3#version-list)

## Improvements

- PD

    <!--owner: nolouch -->

>     - Optimize the lock granularity and improve the processing ability of heartbeat under high concurrency [#5586](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5586) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the granularity of locks and improve the capability of processing heartbeat in high concurrency [#5586](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5586) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

- Tools

    - TiCDC

    <!--owner: @nongfushanquan-->

>         - Enable transaction split and disable safeMode of a changefeed in TiCDC by defult [#7505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7505) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Enable transaction split and disable the safe mode of a changefeed in TiCDC by default [#7505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7505) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

>         - Improve kakfa protocol encoder performance [#7540](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7540), [#7532](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7532), [#7543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7543) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Improve the performance of Kafka protocol encoder [#7540](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7540), [#7532](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7532), [#7543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7543) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    <!--sql-infra and tidb owner: bb7133-->

    - (dup) Fix the issue that the `grantor` field is missing in the `mysql.tables_priv` table [#38293](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38293) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - (dup) Fix the issue of the wrong query result that occurs when the mistakenly pushed-down conditions are discarded by Join Reorder [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that `get_lock()` cannot hold for more than 10 minutes [#38706](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38706) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the lock acquired by `get_lock()` cannot hold for more than 10 minutes [#38706](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38706) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    - Fix the issue that the auto-increment column cannot be used with check constraint [#38894](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38894) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the gPRC log is output to a wrong file [#38941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38941) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash sync status is nor removed from etcd when a table is truncated or dropped [#37168](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37168) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TiFlash sync status of a table is not deleted from etcd when the table is truncated or dropped [#37168](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37168) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
```

>     - Fix an issue that `get_lock()` cannot hold for more than 10 minutes. [#38706](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38706) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
>     - Fix the issue that the auto increment column cannot be used with check constraint. [#38894](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38894) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - Fix broken log rotation of grpc [#38941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38941) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
>     - Delete TiFlash sync status from etcd when table is truncated or dropped [#37168](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37168) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
>     - Fix the issue of arbitrary file read via data source name injection (CVE-2022-3023). [#38541](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38541) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `get_lock()` cannot hold for more than 10 minutes [#38706](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38706) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that the auto-increment column cannot be used with check constraint [#38894](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38894) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the gPRC log is output to a wrong file [#38941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38941) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash sync status is nor removed from etcd when a table is truncated or dropped [#37168](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37168) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - Fix the issue that data files can be accessed unrestrainedly via data source name injection (CVE-2022-3023) [#38541](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38541) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

    <!--executor owner: zanmato1984-->

>     - Fix the issue that function `str_to_date` returns wrong result on SQL Mode `NO_ZERO_DATE` [#39146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39146) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that function `str_to_date` returns wrong result under the `NO_ZERO_DATE` SQL Mode [#39146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39146) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

>     - Fix the issue that function `str_to_date` returns wrong result under the `NO_ZERO_DATE` SQL Mode [#39146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39146) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the function `str_to_date` returns wrong result in the `NO_ZERO_DATE` SQL mode [#39146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39146) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

    <!--planner owner: qw4990-->

>     - Fix the issue that the background statistics collecting task may panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that statistics collecting tasks in the background might panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)
```

>     - Fix the issue that statistics collecting tasks in the background might panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that statistics collection tasks in the background might panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)
```

    <!--transaction owner: cfzjywxk-->

    - (dup) Fix the issue that in some scenarios the pessimistic lock is incorrectly added to the non-unique secondary index [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

- PD

    <!--owner: nolouch -->

    - (dup) Fix inaccurate Stream timeout and accelerate leader switchover [#5207](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5207) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

+ TiKV

    <!--owner: tonyxuqqi-->

    - (dup) Fix abnormal Region competition caused by expired lease during snapshot acquisition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

+ TiFlash

    <!--compute owner: zanmato1984 -->

    - (dup) Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that wrong data input for `CAST(value AS DATETIME)` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

    <!--storage owner: flowbehappy -->

>     - Fix the issue that heavy write pressure could generate too many column files in delta layer. [#6361](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6361) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that heavy write pressure might generate too many column files in the delta layer [#6361](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6361) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

>     - Fix the issue that column files in delta layer cannot be compacted after restart tiflash [#6159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6159) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that column files in the delta layer cannot be compacted after restarting TiFlash [#6159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6159) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        <!--owner: @3pointer-->

>         - Fix the issue that restore task fails when using old framework for collations in databases or tables [#39150](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39150) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that restore tasks fail when using old framework for collations in databases or tables [#39150](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39150) @[MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
```

    + Dumpling

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiCDC

        <!--owner: @nongfushanquan-->

>         - Fix data loss when resuming changefeed during DDL is executed [#7682](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7682) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix data loss occurred in the scenario of executing DDL statements first and then pausing and resuming the changefeed [#7682](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7682) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

    + TiDB Binlog

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        <!--owner: @niubell-->

        - (dup) Fix the issue that when `collation_compatible` is set to `"strict"`, DM might generate SQL with duplicated collations [#6832](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6832) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that DM tasks might stop with an `Unknown placement policy` error [#7493](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7493) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the issue that relay logs might be pulled from upstream again in some cases [#7525](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7525) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)

>         - Fix the issue that data is replicated for multiple times when a new DM worker is scheduled before the existing worker exits [#7658](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7658) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Author: DM worker 是主动调度还是被调度呢？

>         - Fix the issue that data is replicated for multiple times when a new DM worker is scheduled before the existing worker exits [#7658](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7658) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Author: DM worker 是主动调度还是被调度呢？

Reviewer 4: > DM worker 是主动调度还是被调度呢？

DM worker 是被 DM master 调度的

---

# TiDB 6.1.3 Release Notes

Release date: December 5, 2022

TiDB version: 6.1.3

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.3#version-list)

## Improvements

- PD

    - Optimize the granularity of locks to reduce lock contention and improve the capability of processing heartbeat in high concurrency [#5586](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5586) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

- Tools

    - TiCDC

        - Enable transaction split and disable the safe mode of a changefeed in TiCDC by default to improve performance [#7505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7505) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve the performance of Kafka protocol encoder [#7540](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7540), [#7532](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7532), [#7543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7543) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

- Others

>     - Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.18 to [go1.19](https://go.dev/doc/go1.19), which improves the TiDB stability. Specifically, a Go system variable [`GOMEMLIMIT`](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime@go1.19#hdr-Environment_Variables) is introduced to keep the memory usage of TiDB below a certain threshold. This helps mitigate most OOM issues. For more information, see [Mitigate OOM issues by configuring the `GOMEMLIMIT`](/configure-memory-usage.md#mitigate-oom-issues-by-configuring-the-gomemlimit).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.18 to [go1.19](https://go.dev/doc/go1.19), which improves the TiDB stability. Specifically, a Go environment variable [`GOMEMLIMIT`](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime@go1.19#hdr-Environment_Variables) is introduced to keep the memory usage of TiDB below a certain threshold. This helps mitigate most OOM issues. For more information, see [Mitigate OOM issues by configuring the `GOMEMLIMIT`](/configure-memory-usage.md#mitigate-oom-issues-by-configuring-the-gomemlimit).
```

>     - Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.18 to [go1.19](https://go.dev/doc/go1.19), which improves the TiDB stability. Specifically, a Go environment variable [`GOMEMLIMIT`](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime@go1.19#hdr-Environment_Variables) is introduced to keep the memory usage of TiDB below a certain threshold. This helps mitigate most OOM issues. For more information, see [Mitigate OOM issues by configuring the `GOMEMLIMIT`](/configure-memory-usage.md#mitigate-oom-issues-by-configuring-the-gomemlimit).

Author: ```suggestion
    - Upgrade the Go compiler version of TiDB from go1.18 to [go1.19](https://go.dev/doc/go1.19), which improves the TiDB stability. Specifically, a Go environment variable [`GOMEMLIMIT`](https://pkg.go.dev/runtime@go1.19#hdr-Environment_Variables) is introduced to keep the memory usage of TiDB below a certain threshold. This helps mitigate most OOM issues. For more information, see [Mitigate OOM issues by configuring the `GOMEMLIMIT`](/configure-memory-usage.md#mitigate-oom-issues-by-configuring-gomemlimit).
```

    - Fix the issue that data files can be accessed unrestrainedly via data source name injection (CVE-2022-3023) [#38541](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38541) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - Fix the issue that the function `str_to_date` returns wrong result in the `NO_ZERO_DATE` SQL mode [#39146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39146) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
    - Fix the issue that statistics collection tasks in the background might panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)
    - Fix the issue that in some scenarios the pessimistic lock is incorrectly added to the non-unique secondary index [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

- PD

    - Fix inaccurate Stream timeout and accelerate leader switchover [#5207](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5207) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

+ TiKV

    - Fix abnormal Region competition caused by expired lease during snapshot acquisition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is `UInt8` [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.3 Release Notes

Release date: xx, xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.1.3

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.3#version-list)

## Improvements

> 

Reviewer 5: - PD
   - Optimize the lock granularity and improve the processing ability of heartbeat under high concurrency [#5635](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/5635) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

    <!--planner owner: qw4990-->

    <!--transaction owner: cfzjywxk-->

    - (dup) Fix the issue that in some scenarios the pessimistic lock is incorrectly added to the non-unique secondary index [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

- PD

    <!--owner: nolouch -->

    - (dup) Fix inaccurate Stream timeout and accelerate leader switchover [#5207](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5207) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)

+ TiKV

    <!--owner: tonyxuqqi-->

    - (dup) Fix abnormal Region competition caused by expired lease during snapshot acquisition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

+ TiFlash

    <!--compute owner: zanmato1984 -->

    - (dup) Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that wrong data input for `CAST(value AS DATETIME)` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

    <!--storage owner: flowbehappy -->

>     - Fix too many column files under heavy write pressure. [#6361](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6361) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that heavy write pressure could generate too many column files. [#6361](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6361) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

>     - Fix the issue that column files in delta layer cannot be compacted after restart tiflash [#6159] @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that column files in delta layer cannot be compacted after restart tiflash [#6159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6159) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

>     - Fix the problem that column files in delta layer cannot be compacted after restart tiflash [#6159] @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that column files in delta layer cannot be compacted after restart tiflash [#6159] @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

    <!--owner: @3pointer-->

    + Dumpling

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiCDC

    <!--owner: @nongfushanquan-->

        - Fix an issue that causes data lost when pause and resume changefeed while executing DDL. [#7682](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7682) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Binlog

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

        - Fix the issue that when `collation_compatible` is set to `"strict"`, DM might generate SQL with duplicated collations [#6832](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6832) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix sometime DM task is stopped with error "Unknown placement policy" [#7493](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7493) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       - Fix in some cases log contains many "COMMIT" related lines and relay log file may re-pull from upstream [#7719](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7719) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
       - Fix when DM worker exits a new worker may be scheduled too quickly and write duplicated data [#7745](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7745) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

```

---
title: TiDB 6.1.3 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.1.3 Release Notes

Release date: xx, xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.1.3

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.1/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.1.3#version-list)

## Improvements

> 

Reviewer 7: - Enable transaction split and disable safeMode of a changefeed in TiCDC by defult. [#7505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7505)
 - Improve kakfa protocol encoder performance.[#7540](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7540)[#7532](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7532)[#7543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7532)

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- PD

    - Optimize the lock granularity and improve the processing ability of heartbeat under high concurrency [#5586](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5586) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

- Tools

    - TiCDC
    
        - Enable transaction split and disable safeMode of a changefeed in TiCDC by defult [#7505](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7505) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Improve kakfa protocol encoder performance [#7540](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7540), [#7532](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7532), [#7543](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7543) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
    
```

    - (dup) Fix the issue of the wrong query result that occurs when the mistakenly pushed-down conditions are discarded by Join Reorder [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix an issue that `get_lock()` cannot hold for more than 10 minutes. [#38706](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38706) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that the auto increment column cannot be used with check constraint. [#38894](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38894) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix broken log rotation of grpc [#38941](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38941) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - Delete TiFlash sync status from etcd when table is truncated or dropped [#37168](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37168) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
    - Fix the issue of arbitrary file read via data source name injection (CVE-2022-3023). [#38541](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38541) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    <!--executor owner: zanmato1984-->

>     <!--planner owner: qw4990-->

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that Projection may push expression down through Join wrongly [#38736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/38736) @[[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)](https://github.com/winoros)
    - Fix the issue that the background statistics collecting task may panic [#35421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35421) @[[lilinghai](https://github.com/lilinghai)](https://github.com/lilinghai)
```

+ TiKV

    <!--owner: tonyxuqqi-->

    - (dup) Fix abnormal Region competition caused by expired lease during snapshot acquisition [#13553](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13553) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

+ TiFlash

    <!--compute owner: zanmato1984 -->

    - (dup) Fix the issue that logical operators return wrong results when the argument type is UInt8 [#6127](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6127)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that wrong data input for `CAST(value AS DATETIME)` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

    <!--storage owner: flowbehappy -->

    - Fix the issue that heavy write pressure could generate too many column files in delta layer. [#6361](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6361) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
    - Fix the issue that column files in delta layer cannot be compacted after restart tiflash [#6159](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/6159) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

> 

Reviewer 9: Fix the issue that fail to restore when use old collation framework in databases or tables.  [#39150](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39150)

    <!--owner: @3pointer-->

    + Dumpling

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiCDC

    <!--owner: @nongfushanquan-->

        - Fix an issue that causes data lost when pause and resume changefeed while executing DDL. [#7682](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7682) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Binlog

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

    <!--owner: @niubell-->

        - Fix the issue that when `collation_compatible` is set to `"strict"`, DM might generate SQL with duplicated collations [#6832](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6832) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix sometime DM task is stopped with error "Unknown placement policy" [#7493](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7493) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>        - Fix in some cases log contains many "COMMIT" related lines and relay log file may re-pull from upstream [#7719](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7719) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
>        - Fix when DM worker exits a new worker may be scheduled too quickly and write duplicated data [#7745](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7745) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix in some cases log contains many "COMMIT" related lines and relay log file may re-pull from upstream [#7719](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7719) @[liumengya94](https://github.com/liumengya94)
        - Fix when DM worker exits a new worker may be scheduled too quickly and write duplicated data [#7745](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/7745) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```
